h1. Rails3-Application-Templates

These application generator templates give you a Rails 3 skeleton or starter app you can deploy in minutes.

These application templates were created using the "rails3_devise_wizard":https://github.com/fortuity/rails3_devise_wizard gem which provides a convenient way to assemble a reusable application template by selecting various "recipes" for popular Rails development packages.

The application generator templates will ask you for various preferences:

* Would you like to use jQuery instead of Prototype?
* Would you like to use jQuery UI?
* Would you like to use Haml instead of ERB?
* Would you like to use RSpec instead of TestUnit?
* Would you like to use factory_girl for test fixtures with RSpec?
* Would you like to use Cucumber for your BDD?
* Would you like to use Mongoid to connect to a MongoDB database?
* Would you like to use Devise for authentication?
* Would you like to use OmniAuth for authentication? 
* Would you like to set a robots.txt file to ban spiders?

h4. Applications

The templates can be used to build the following complete applications:

* "rails3-devise-rspec-cucumber":https://github.com/fortuity/rails3-devise-rspec-cucumber
* "rails3-mongoid-devise":http://github.com/fortuity/rails3-mongoid-devise/
* "rails3-mongoid-omniauth":http://github.com/fortuity/rails3-mongoid-omniauth/
* "rails3-subdomain-devise":http://github.com/fortuity/rails3-subdomain-devise/

h4. Tutorials

There are detailed tutorials to show how each application is built:

* "Tutorial for rails3-devise-rspec-cucumber":https://github.com/fortuity/rails3-devise-rspec-cucumber/wiki/Tutorial
* "Tutorial for rails3-mongoid-devise":http://github.com/fortuity/rails3-mongoid-devise/wiki/Tutorial-%28Walkthrough%29
* "Tutorial for rails3-mongoid-omniauth":https://github.com/fortuity/rails3-mongoid-omniauth/wiki/Tutorial
* "Tutorial for rails3-subdomain-devise":http://github.com/fortuity/rails3-subdomain-devise/wiki/Tutorial-%28Walkthrough%29

h2. Follow on Twitter

Are these application templates useful to you? Follow the project on Twitter:
"http://twitter.com/rails_apps":http://twitter.com/rails_apps
and tweet some praise. I'd love to know you were helped out by what I've put together.

Any issues? Please create an "Issue":http://github.com/fortuity/rails3-application-templates/issues on GitHub.

h2. Suggested Use

Any developer can quickly generate a Rails web application using the rails new command. In practice, experienced Rails developers typically add an assortment of useful additional packages (gems) before beginning development of any web application. A developer often uses the same set of packages to get started and may create a "starter app" that can be copied and reused for any new project.

These application templates integrate the most commonly used packages that many Rails developers include in a "starter app." It can be a hassle to integrate some of the most commonly used packages, particularly when new versions are released and there are minor "gotchas" that interfere with packages working together. By using these  application templates, you'll have a ready-to-run app without the integration "gotchas". Each has a detailed tutorial so you'll see exactly how the application was assembled.

h2. Dependencies

Before generating your application, you will need:

* The Ruby language (version 1.8.7 or 1.9.2)
* Rails (version 3.0.5 or newer)

bq. You MUST be using Rails 3.0.4 or newer. Generating a Rails application from an "HTTPS" URL does not work in Rails 3.0.3 and earlier versions.

I recommend installing rvm, the "Ruby Version Manager":http://rvm.beginrescueend.com/, to manage multiple versions of Rails.

Check that appropriate versions of Ruby and Rails are installed in your development environment:
@$ ruby -v@
@$ rails -v@

h2. Generating the Application

For the *rails3-devise-rspec-cucumber* app, generate a new Rails application with the command:

@$ rails new APP_NAME -m https://github.com/fortuity/rails3-application-templates/raw/master/rails3-devise-rspec-cucumber-template.rb -T -J@

Use the @-T -J@ flags to skip Test::Unit files and Prototype files.

For the *rails3-mongoid-devise* app, generate a new Rails application with the command:

@$ rails new APP_NAME -m https://github.com/fortuity/rails3-application-templates/raw/master/rails3-mongoid-devise-template.rb -T -O -J@

Use the @-T -O -J@ flags to skip Test::Unit files, Active Record files, and Prototype files.

For the *rails3-mongoid-omniauth* app, generate a new Rails application with the command:

@$ rails new APP_NAME -m https://github.com/fortuity/rails3-application-templates/raw/master/rails3-mongoid-omniauth-template.rb -T -O -J@

Use the @-T -O -J@ flags to skip Test::Unit files, Active Record files, and Prototype files.

For the *rails3-subdomain-devise* app:

@$ rails new APP_NAME -m https://github.com/fortuity/rails3-application-templates/raw/master/rails3-subdomain-devise-template.rb -T -O -J@

Use the @-T -O -J@ flags to skip Test::Unit files, Active Record files, and Prototype files.

bq. You MUST be using Rails 3.0.4 or newer. Generating a Rails application from an "HTTPS" URL does not work in Rails 3.0.3 and earlier versions.

This creates a new Rails app (with the @app_name@ you provide) on your computer.

h2. The Recipes

The following recipes were used to create the application templates.

h4. Recipes for General Use

|_. File                    |_.                                  |_. Dependencies     |_. Authors |
| "action_mailer.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails3_devise_wizard/blob/master/recipes/action_mailer.rb          | Changes ActionMailer defaults             | none               | dkehoe |
| "ban_spiders.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails3_devise_wizard/blob/master/recipes/ban_spiders.rb           | Ban spiders from your site by changing robots.txt | none | dkehoe |
| "cleanup.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails3_devise_wizard/blob/master/recipes/cleanup.rb               | Remove unnecessary files, add READMEs | none | fnichol, dkehoe |
| "git.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails3_devise_wizard/blob/master/recipes/git.rb                    | Add a gitignore file, initialize new Git repo | Git | fnichol, dkehoe |
| "sample_readme.textile":https://github.com/fortuity/rails3_devise_wizard/blob/master/recipes/sample_readme.textile     | Placeholder text for a README file (textile markup) | none | dkehoe |
| "sample_readme.txt":https://github.com/fortuity/rails3_devise_wizard/blob/master/recipes/sample_readme.txt         | Placeholder text for a README file (ASCII) | none | dkehoe |

h4. Recipes for Testing and BDD

|_. File                    |_.                                  |_. Dependencies     |_. Authors |
| "rspec.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails3_devise_wizard/blob/master/recipes/rspec.rb          | Install RSpec | none | rbrooker, dkehoe |
| "cucumber.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails3_devise_wizard/blob/master/recipes/cucumber.rb          | Install Cucumber | none | rbrooker, dkehoe |

h4. Recipes for Mongoid

|_. File                    |_.                                  |_. Dependencies     |_. Authors |
| "mongoid.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails3_devise_wizard/blob/master/recipes/mongoid.rb        | Installs Mongoid with the bson_ext gem | Mongoid | dkehoe |

h4. Recipes for jQuery

|_. File                    |_.                                  |_. Dependencies     |_. Authors |
| "jquery.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails3_devise_wizard/blob/master/recipes/jquery_fix.rb             | Installs jQuery | none | dkehoe |

h4. Recipes for Devise

|_. File                    |_.                                  |_. Dependencies     |_. Authors |
| "devise.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails3_devise_wizard/blob/master/recipes/devise.rb          | Installs Devise  | none | dkehoe |

h4. Recipes for OmniAuth

|_. File                    |_.                                  |_. Dependencies     |_. Authors |
| "omniauth.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails3_devise_wizard/blob/master/recipes/omniauth.rb        | OmniAuth for authentication | none | dkehoe |
| "omniauth_email.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails3_devise_wizard/blob/master/recipes/omniauth_email.rb        | Requests a new uer's email address when authenticating with Twitter, etc. | OmniAuth | dkehoe |

h4. Recipes for Haml

|_. File                    |_.                                  |_. Dependencies     |_. Authors |
| "haml.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails3_devise_wizard/blob/master/recipes/haml.rb          | Installs Haml | none | dkehoe |

h4. Recipes for the Application Layout

|_. File                    |_.                                  |_. Dependencies     |_. Authors |
| "application_layout.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails3_devise_wizard/blob/master/recipes/application_layout.rb     | Adds application layout with flash messages | ERB or Haml      | dkehoe |
| "css_setup.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails3_devise_wizard/blob/master/recipes/css_setup.rb              | Add a stylesheet with styles for a horizontal menu and flash messages | none | dkehoe |

h4. Recipes for the Example Apps

|_. File                    |_.                                  |_. Dependencies     |_. Authors |
| "add_user.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails3_devise_wizard/blob/master/recipes/add_user.rb          | adds User model for use with OmniAuth | none | dkehoe |
| "add_user_name.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails3_devise_wizard/blob/master/recipes/add_user_name.rb          | adds name to User for use with Devise | User model, Devise | dkehoe |
| "navigation.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails3_devise_wizard/blob/master/recipes/_navigation.rb      | Add navigation links to the default application layout | none | dkehoe |
| "devise_navigation.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails3_devise_wizard/blob/master/recipes/devise_navigation.rb      | Add navigation links to the default application layout | Devise | dkehoe |
| "home_page.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails3_devise_wizard/blob/master/recipes/home_page.rb              | Create a home controller, route, and simple view | ERB or Haml | dkehoe |
| "home_page_users.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails3_devise_wizard/blob/master/recipes/home_page_users.rb        | Modify a home page to display a list of users | Home controller, User model, ERB or Haml | dkehoe |
| "seed_database.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails3_devise_wizard/blob/master/recipes/seed_database.rb          | Adds a db/seeds.rb file to reset a database | none | dkehoe |
| "users_page.rb":https://github.com/fortuity/rails3_devise_wizard/blob/master/recipes/users_page.rb             | Add a home page containing links to User pages | User model, ERB or Haml | dkehoe |

h2. Documentation and Support

This is the only documentation.

h4. Customizing the Template

If you wish to "change the recipe" to generate the app with your own customized options, you can copy and edit the template file. However, it is better to use the "rails3_devise_wizard":https://github.com/fortuity/rails3_devise_wizard gem to create a new application template. You'll find newer versions of the recipes that make up the application template. You may find issues have been identified and (perhaps) fixed. And it will be easier to maintain your application template if you work from the "rails3_devise_wizard":https://github.com/fortuity/rails3_devise_wizard gem.

h4. Writing Recipes

To understand the code in these templates, take a look at "Thor::Actions":http://rdoc.info/github/wycats/thor/master/Thor/Actions. Your recipes can use any methods provided by "Thor::Actions":http://rdoc.info/github/wycats/thor/master/Thor/Actions or "Rails::Generators::Actions":http://railsapi.com/doc/rails-v3.0.3/classes/Rails/Generators/Actions.html.

h4. About Rails Application Templates

"Cooking Up A Custom Rails 3 Template (11 Oct 2010) by Andrea Singh":http://blog.madebydna.com/all/code/2010/10/11/cooking-up-a-custom-rails3-template.html
"Rails Application Templates (16 Sept 2010) by Collin Schaafsma":http://quickleft.com/blog/rails-application-templates
"Application templates in Rails 3 (18 Sept 2009) by Ben Scofield":http://benscofield.com/2009/09/application-templates-in-rails-3/
"Railscasts: App Templates in Rails 2.3 (9 Feb 2009) by Ryan Bates":http://railscasts.com/episodes/148-app-templates-in-rails-2-3
"Rails templates (4 Dec 2008) by Pratik Naik":http://m.onkey.org/rails-templates

h4. Issues

Any issues? Please create an "Issue":http://github.com/fortuity/rails3-application-templates/issues on GitHub.

h2. Similar Projects

There are many similar projects. To my knowledge, these are the only application templates that combine "Mongoid":http://mongoid.org/ with "Devise":http://github.com/plataformatec/devise.

h4. Rails template-generating applications

Visit these websites to select "recipes" and generate an application template.

* "Rails Wizard":http://railswizard.org/

bq. Devise or OmniAuth, Mongoid or MongoMapper or ActiveRecord, RSpec or TestUnit, Cucumber or Steak, jQuery or Prototype or MooTools, ERB or Haml or Slim, Sass or Less CSS.

* "RailsGen":http://railsgen.com/

bq. In development as of February 2011.

h4. Rails application-generating gems

Install these gems and then choose "recipes" and generate an application.

* "rails3_devise_wizard":https://github.com/fortuity/rails3_devise_wizard gem.

bq. The basis for this project's application templates.

* "kfaustino/rails-templater":https://github.com/kfaustino/rails-templater

bq. Mongoid or ActiveRecord, RSpec or TestUnit, FactoryGirl, Cucumber, jQuery or Prototype, ERB or Haml or Slim, Sass, Compass.

h4. Rails application templates

Use these scripts with the @"rails new app_name -m"@ command to generate an application.

These projects were updated in 2011 and use Devise:

* "greendog99/greendog-rails-template":https://github.com/greendog99/greendog-rails-template

bq. Devise, RSpec, Factory Girl, jQuery, Haml, Sass, Compass, Git, rvm, HTML5 Boilerplate, plus a layout. Uses subtemplates for easy customizing.

* "dcrec1/rails3_template":https://github.com/dcrec1/rails3_template

bq. Devise (with Cucumber steps), Cucumber, RSpec, Factory Girl, Haml, Compass, jQuery, Git, Formtastic, a layout, and much more. Uses subtemplates for easy customizing.

* "aentos/rails3-templates":https://github.com/aentos/rails3-templates

bq. Devise or Authlogic or OmniAuth, Cucumber, Capybara, RSpec, Factory Girl, Shoulda, jQuery, Haml, Compass, 960 grid or Blueprint, Capistrano or Heroku or Inploy, Git, plus a layout. Uses subtemplates for easy customizing.

* "rubyx/rails3_template":https://github.com/rubyx/rails3_template

bq. PostgreSQL, Devise, Cucumber with Selenium and Capybara, RSpec with Machinist and Faker, JQuery, Simple Form, Haml, SASS, Git, rvm, Google analytics (optional), Hoptoad for issue tracking (optional), TellThemWhen for downtime notifications (optional). With a description of the recipe in the README.

These projects were updated in 2010 and use Devise:

* "kenton/rails3-templates":https://github.com/kenton/rails3-templates

bq. Devise, RSpec, Cucumber with Capybara, Factory Girl, jQuery, Simple Form, Git, rvm. Uses subtemplates for easy customizing.

* "graemenelson/rails3-template":https://github.com/graemenelson/rails3-template

bq. Devise, Cucumber, Shoulda with Factory Girl and Mocha, Haml, Sass, Formtastic, jQuery, Git, rvm.

This project was updated in 2010 and uses Mongoid:

* "madebydna/rails-templater":https://github.com/madebydna/rails-templater

bq. Mongoid or ActiveRecord, RSpec, FactoryGirl, Cucumber (with Mongoid steps), jQuery, Haml, Sass, Compass.  Uses subtemplates for easy customizing.

These projects were updated in 2011 and do not use Devise or Mongoid:

* "perfectline/template-bucket":https://github.com/perfectline/template-bucket

bq. Cucumber, RSpec, jQuery, Haml or Jammit, Capistrano, Git, rvm, plus a layout. Uses subtemplates for easy customizing.

* "leshill/rails3-app":https://github.com/leshill/rails3-app

bq. Cucumber, RSpec, Factory Girl or Fabrication, Haml, jQuery, Git, rvm.

* "shawn/shawns-rails3-template":https://github.com/shawn/shawns-rails3-template/

bq. Haml, Sass, Git, plus a layout.

These Rails 2.3 projects were once popular but haven't been updated since 2009 or 2010:

* "jm/rails-templates":https://github.com/jm/rails-templates
* "ffmike/BigOldRailsTemplate":https://github.com/ffmike/BigOldRailsTemplate

bq. For a ranking by popularity, see:
"The Ruby Toolbox: Rails App Templates":http://ruby-toolbox.com/categories/rails_app_templates.html

h2. Contributing

If you make improvements to this application, please share with others.

Send the author a message, create an "issue":http://github.com/fortuity/rails3-application-templates/issues, or fork the project and submit a pull request.

If you add functionality to this application, create an alternative implementation, or build an application that is similar, please contact me and I'll add a note to the README so that others can find your work.

h2. Credits

Daniel Kehoe ("http://danielkehoe.com/":http://danielkehoe.com/) created these templates.

Are the templates useful to you? Follow the project on Twitter:
"http://twitter.com/rails_apps":http://twitter.com/rails_apps
and tweet some praise. I'd love to know you were helped out by what I've put together.

Any issues? Please create an "Issue":http://github.com/fortuity/rails3-application-templates/issues on GitHub.

h2. License

h4. Public Domain Dedication

This work is a compilation and derivation from other previously released works. With the exception of various included works, which may be restricted by other licenses, the author or authors of this code dedicate any and all copyright interest in this code to the public domain. We make this dedication for the benefit of the public at large and to the detriment of our heirs and successors. We intend this dedication to be an overt act of relinquishment in perpetuity of all present and future rights to this code under copyright law.
